docs/en/Anselm.md, before:

# St. Anselm's ontological argument

The [`Anselm`][anselm] file might be the ~~[first][fst]~~ second attempt
in the Lean community to formalize an ontological argument for the
existence of God in Lean. It's a modified version of the formulation of
St. Anselm's ontological argument by Alvin Plantinga. (See [9.1
Formulation 1][plantinga] of the SEP entry ["Ontological
Arguments."](#reference))

1. God exists in the understanding but not in reality. (Assumption for
   *reductio*)
2. Existence in reality is greater than existence in the understanding
   alone. (Premise)
3. There exists a being in reality that can be conceived. (*Modified*
   premise)
4. A being that exists in reality and can be conceived is greater than
   God. (From (1) and (2).)
5. There exists a being that can be conceived and is greater than God.
   (From (3) and (4).)
6. No being greater than God can be conceived. (From the definition of
   “God”.)
7. Hence, it is false that God exists in the understanding but not in
   reality. (From (1), (5), (6).)
8. God exists in the understanding. (Premise, to which even the Fool
   agrees.)
9. Hence God exists in reality. (From (7), (8).)

Step 3 of the original formulation by Alvin Plantinga is the following
premise: "A being having all of God’s properties plus existence in
reality can be conceived." This premise is redundant. Since God is the
greatest being that can be conceived, God itself can be conceived.
Therefore, a being having all of God's properties can be conceived.

I think the conclusion of St. Anselm's argument is the following
statement:

```lean
theorem isGod_inReality {x : Being} : isGod x → inReality x
```

This theorem doesn't state that God exists in reality. It merely says
that if a being is God, it exists in reality. In order to prove the
existence of God in reality, you need to show that `∃ (x : Being), isGod
x ∧ inReality x`.

For this reason, I think St. Anselm's argument doesn't show God's
existence. Of course, I might have formalized it wrong.

## Theorem `Anselm.not_exists_int_isGod`

A user named car_nap of Owl of Sogang, a Korean-speaking philosophy
discussion forum, [pointed out][owl] (in Korean) that I didn't prove
that the statement `∃ (x : Being), isGod x ∧ inReality x` is not a
theorem of a theory whose axioms are the premises of St. Anselm's
argument (and the axioms of Lean's type theory).

So I proved a theorem named `Anselm.not_exists_int_isGod`, which shows
that there exist a universe level `u`, a type `Being : Type u`, and an
instance of `Anselm Being` where the statement `∃ (x : Being), isGod x`
is false.

## Reference

Oppy, Graham, "Ontological Arguments", *The Stanford Encyclopedia of
Philosophy* (Fall 2023 Edition), Edward N. Zalta & Uri Nodelman (eds.),
URL =
<https://plato.stanford.edu/archives/fall2023/entries/ontological-arguments/>.

## Acknowledgements

### The Lean community

I'd like to thank Eric Wieser and Alistair Tucker. Eric Wieser found
inconsistency in my first and second drafts. Alistair Tucker gave a
comment on transcribing premise 3 of the original formulation by Alvin
Plantinga. You can see my discussion with them in [this
link][leanzulip].

Alistair Tucker also [told me][tucker] how to prove that we can't deduce
the statement `∃ (x : Being), isGod x ∧ inReality x` from the premises
of St. Anselm's argument and the axioms of Lean's type theory.

### Owl of Sogang

I want to thank car_nap for raising [the issue mentioned
above](#theorem-anselmnot_exists_int_isgod).

[anselm]: ../../Notes/Anselm.lean
[fst]: https://github.com/forked-from-1kasper/ground_zero/blob/9f83f7c6224eee8905b16aeebc4c234b4b216031/GroundZero/Theorems/Ontological.lean#L520-L521
[plantinga]: https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/ontological-arguments/#StAnsOntArg
[owl]: https://forum.owlofsogang.com/t/lean/3613/9
[leanzulip]: https://leanprover.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/113488-general/topic/Formalizing.20St.2E.20Anselm's.20ontological.20argument/near/39867934
[tucker]: https://leanprover.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/116395-maths/topic/how.20do.20I.20say.20.22a.20sentence.20is.20a.20theorem.20of.20a.20theory.22.20in.20lean.3F/near/399042805

Commit message:

doc: add explanation about the premises
Add an explanation about the premises of St. Anselm’s ontological
argument.

docs/en/Anselm.md, after:

# St. Anselm's ontological argument

The [`Anselm`][anselm] file might be the ~~[first][fst]~~ second attempt
in the Lean community to formalize an ontological argument for the
existence of God in Lean. It's a modified version of the formulation of
St. Anselm's ontological argument by Alvin Plantinga. (See [9.1
Formulation 1][plantinga] of the SEP entry ["Ontological
Arguments."](#reference))

1. God exists in the understanding but not in reality. (Assumption for
   *reductio*)
2. Existence in reality is greater than existence in the understanding
   alone. (Premise)
3. There exists a being in reality that can be conceived. (*Modified*
   premise)
4. A being that exists in reality and can be conceived is greater than
   God. (From (1) and (2).)
5. There exists a being that can be conceived and is greater than God.
   (From (3) and (4).)
6. No being greater than God can be conceived. (From the definition of
   “God”.)
7. Hence, it is false that God exists in the understanding but not in
   reality. (From (1), (5), (6).)
8. God exists in the understanding. (Premise, to which even the Fool
   agrees.)
9. Hence God exists in reality. (From (7), (8).)

I formalized the three premises of the argument as follows:

* `lt_of_inUnderstanding_not_inReality_inReality {x y : Being} :
inUnderstanding x → ¬ inReality x → inReality y → x < y` (Step 2)
* `exists_conceivable_and_inReality : ∃ (x : Being), conceivable x ∧
inReality x` (Step 3)
* `isGod_inUnderstanding {x : Being} : isGod x → inUnderstanding x`
  (Step 8)

Step 3 of the original formulation by Alvin Plantinga is the following
premise: "A being having all of God’s properties plus existence in
reality can be conceived." This premise is redundant. Since God is the
greatest being that can be conceived, God itself can be conceived.
Therefore, a being having all of God's properties can be conceived.

I think the conclusion of St. Anselm's argument is the following
statement:

```lean
theorem isGod_inReality {x : Being} : isGod x → inReality x
```

This theorem doesn't state that God exists in reality. It merely says
that if a being is God, it exists in reality. In order to prove the
existence of God in reality, you need to show that `∃ (x : Being), isGod
x ∧ inReality x`.

For this reason, I think St. Anselm's argument doesn't show God's
existence. Of course, I might have formalized it wrong.

## Theorem `Anselm.not_exists_int_isGod`

A user named car_nap of Owl of Sogang, a Korean-speaking philosophy
discussion forum, [pointed out][owl] (in Korean) that I didn't prove
that the statement `∃ (x : Being), isGod x ∧ inReality x` is not a
theorem of a theory whose axioms are the premises of St. Anselm's
argument (and the axioms of Lean's type theory).

So I proved a theorem named `Anselm.not_exists_int_isGod`, which shows
that there exist a universe level `u`, a type `Being : Type u`, and an
instance of `Anselm Being` where the statement `∃ (x : Being), isGod x`
is false.

## Reference

Oppy, Graham, "Ontological Arguments", *The Stanford Encyclopedia of
Philosophy* (Fall 2023 Edition), Edward N. Zalta & Uri Nodelman (eds.),
URL =
<https://plato.stanford.edu/archives/fall2023/entries/ontological-arguments/>.

## Acknowledgements

### The Lean community

I'd like to thank Eric Wieser and Alistair Tucker. Eric Wieser found
inconsistency in my first and second drafts. Alistair Tucker gave a
comment on transcribing premise 3 of the original formulation by Alvin
Plantinga. You can see my discussion with them in [this
link][leanzulip].

Alistair Tucker also [told me][tucker] how to prove that we can't deduce
the statement `∃ (x : Being), isGod x ∧ inReality x` from the premises
of St. Anselm's argument and the axioms of Lean's type theory.

### Owl of Sogang

I want to thank car_nap for raising [the issue mentioned
above](#theorem-anselmnot_exists_int_isgod).

[anselm]: ../../Notes/Anselm.lean
[fst]: https://github.com/forked-from-1kasper/ground_zero/blob/9f83f7c6224eee8905b16aeebc4c234b4b216031/GroundZero/Theorems/Ontological.lean#L520-L521
[plantinga]: https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/ontological-arguments/#StAnsOntArg
[owl]: https://forum.owlofsogang.com/t/lean/3613/9
[leanzulip]: https://leanprover.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/113488-general/topic/Formalizing.20St.2E.20Anselm's.20ontological.20argument/near/39867934
[tucker]: https://leanprover.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/116395-maths/topic/how.20do.20I.20say.20.22a.20sentence.20is.20a.20theorem.20of.20a.20theory.22.20in.20lean.3F/near/399042805
